>> Estelle Weyl: So, the link for
this is estelle.github.io/cssmastery/.
And I'm just gonna click on this and
make sure that that link actually works.
>> Estelle Weyl: It goes
right to selectors, okay.
So when you go to CSS mastery,
it's slash selectors, but
if you go to that page
you'll be linked to this.
So throughout the deck,
if you get lost, always just go to
estelle.github.io/cssmastery and
click on whatever topic we're discussing.
We might not be at the first
slide when you get there, but
you can just go through it.
>> Estelle Weyl: Okay, so
in terms of selectors,
there are three basic selectors that
have been around since forever.
Which are the ID selectors, the class
selectors, and the element selectors.
Anytime you have an ID in your CSS,
you can target it with HTML and
with JavaScript.
I like to reserve the ID for
my JavaScript, and not add it in for CSS.
And we're gonna cover so
many ways of targeting elements,
that you won't actually need to put an ID.
But it will also teach you how to
overwrite the specificity of an ID
selector.
You want to always use
the lowest specificity possible
whenever you are targeting an element.
So preferably, you wanna use the last one,
which is an li.
Target all your lis, or you actually wanna
target your entire your entire body.
And everything that's inherited
to have the exact same font and
the exact same color and
the exact same line height.
You wanna make it very broad and
then go more specific.
So always do as broad as possible because
your site will look way better than if you
just do IDs, and then have to
style everything individually.
If you want to just target
something specific,
there's a lot of different ways
to target it specifically.
But if you have access to your HTML,
you can put a class in your HTML, and
then target it.
So in this example here,
it says class myClass, and class myClass.
So when I put a period in
front of that class name,
I will target all the elements
that have that class.
So I will target these two.
And then, when I use my ID, I put a pound
sign in front of the case sensitive ID
that'll match this right there.
It is case sensitive as is class.
So, through out the deck,
there will be play times.
If you're completely new to CSS, you
can take the time, and play right here.
I'm just gonna change this to
font-size,
>> Estelle Weyl: 4em,
remember when I said that there would
be live examples throughout the deck.
Whenever you see the CSS block in gray,
it means it's editable and
it will edit the rest of the page.
>> Estelle Weyl: Okay, so
in CSS selectors, in CSS level 1,
which was one large specification,
they declared six different
ways of targeting elements.
There was the element selector,
which we already covered.
There was a descendant selector,
which is just a space.
And that space is actually considered to
be combinator, a space is a combinator.
Then there was a class ID, and then
they also did links, and active links.
>> Estelle Weyl: In level 2, we got,
>> Estelle Weyl: Two more combinators,
which was the greater than sign,
meaning a direct child and the plus sign,
meaning adjacent sibling which is the
element that comes immediately after it.
And then we got a bunch
of attribute selectors,
we got some pseudo elements including
first line and first letter.
No these have pseudo classes,
no those are pseudo elements.
Before and after,
>> Estelle Weyl: And then we go on a few
other selectors including language,
focus, hover, visited, and first child.
>> Estelle Weyl: In CSS3,
we were given a whole slew more and
we're gonna cover all of these.
In the UI specification,
user-interface specification,
so not in CSS3 or
CSS selector level three.
But in the UI and
now in CSS selectors level four,
we got all of these UI features.
Such as a something is valid or invalid.
So, when you hear CSS three, there's
actually no one specification called CSS3.
Originally the first
specification was CSS level one,
then there was CSS level two and then 2.1.
And they came in quick succession,
2.1 came very quickly after two and
it fixed them things in two.
And then CSS3 was actually
broken out into modules.
So when you saw the table of contents,
those were all different modules,
like selector is its own modules.
When now it's CSS selectors level 4,
the flex box and grid are at level one.
So it's called CSS3,
there is never going to be a CSS level
4 because everything is now module.
Some of them are at level 4,
some of them are at level 1.
There's more CSS selectors in level 4,
some of these are supported and
some of these are not yet.
And then we have some selectors
that I'm going to cover
some of or I'll just briefly mention,
and some that we removed.
So originally we were going to have a
parent selector of E bang greater than F,
meaning hit that parent
that is a parent of F.
They came up with a different syntax,
so I'm gonna go over all of those.
If you ever want all the selectors on
one page I did create this resource.
All you have to do is click open and
this will open in another page.